# Brainhack Glossary (english)

## A

### Academia

The societal community of individuals and groups associated with education,
research, scholarship, and learning, especially through university settings or
research institutions.

### Accessibility

The extent to which communities with different backgrounds, experiences,
training, perspectives, and locations have the means to interact with, contribute to, and gain
something from a project

### Across Field

Interdisciplinary approach combining expertise in different domains, such as different research topics or professions. 

### Ad-hoc

A decision or action taken to address something immediately, without having been previously taken into consideration.

### Attendee

Any individual who attends or is present at the event, training, seminar,
workshop, or activity (e.g., participant at Brainhack event, individual present
at Brainhack workshop, etc.)

### Audience

The group that is addressed by intentional communication (e.g., those in
attendance of an Open Science training). The target audience is a group of
individuals that will be addressed or affected by the activity, training,
communication, or action.

### Author

All active contributors, local or remote, who have contributed significantly to
any part of the overall project at any stage, including participating in initial
project planning & development, to creating written documentation of global
efforts, and finally to finalizing and publishing the results.

### Availability

The ability to have open access to a document, code, platform, etc. which allows a larger group of individuals to access, learn from, and collaborate on work.

## B

### Background

The multitude of past experiences a person has, which can include
characteristics about their upbringing, country of origin, socioeconomic status,
education, scientific training, and more.

### Brainhack

A hackathon that brings researchers together from a variety of neuroscience and neuroscience-adjacent subfields and diverse research backgrounds to share open science practices and encourage the transfer of knowledge across the community in a collaborative way.

### Brainhack Global (BHG)

An umbrella term that describes all hackathons and hacking events that fall
under the international Brainhack initiative, allowing a central organizing
committee to help coordinate, plan, and organize local Brainhack events all
around the world. Brainhack Global is composed of a volunteer team of
researchers from a variety of research institutions who lead global Brainhack
efforts annually. This team is in charge of designing the proceedings of
Brainhack Global, sharing information from Brainhack Global with individual
local hackathon efforts, and maintaining the Brainhack Global materials,
websites, and social accounts. Brainhack Global does not run a separate hacking
event themselves at any specific location or time, but instead shares the
information, materials, and broadcasts from all local event sites during the
defined event period each year.

### Brainhack Organization

The planning and coordination of a Brainhack event. This happens through the efforts of local teams and the Brainhack Global committee.

### Brainhack Organization Committee

The team of volunteers in charge of designing the proceedings of Brainhack Global, sharing information from Brainhack Global with individual local hackathon efforts, and maintaining the Brainhack Global materials, websites, and social accounts. The team can be reached via social platforms including twitter (https://twitter.com/brainhackorg) and mattermost (https://mattermost.brainhack.org/).

### (Brainhack School)[put a weblink to the school here!]

A bootcamp that helps individuals acquire and solidify the statistical and
computational skills required to translate neuroimaging data into neuroscience
knowledge. Generally, the Brainhack School consists of two weeks of active,
open, and collaborative hands-on work on small-to-medium size projects.

### Brainstorming

The creative process of generating new ideas by exploring solutions to existing problems, typically accomplished via conversation in groups

### Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS)

A standard for organizing, annotating, and describing neuroimaging and
behavioral data based on an agreed-upon, formalized structure for folders and
files.

### Bottom-up

Organizing and structure created through people working in the lower levels of
an organization or community; all members of the community are equal stakeholders. This approach to organizational structure is general in contrast to top-down, where structure is
imposed from a few individuals at the top of a hierarchy. 

## C

### Citation

A well-established measure of research impact; recognition or validation of
research by others (Hersh and Plume, 2016).

### COBIDAS

An OHBM committee created in June 2014 to represent the “Committee on Best
Practice in Data Analysis & Sharing” (COBIDAS).

### Code of Conduct

Guidelines that establish the expected behavior of those in the community,
outlining what is considered a violation of proper behavior, describing the
process by which violations of the guidelines will be addressed, and stating who
will be in charge of enforcing them.

### Code-oriented

Any project or approach relying heavily on reading, writing, or other uses of code.

### Code Readability

The subjective ease at which any given code can be understood and interpreted.

### Collaboration

The combination of ideas, expertise or contributions from multiple individuals on a given project.

### Community

A group of people who identify with a common characteristic, goal, interest, ideal, or
any group of individuals who occupy similar physical spaces.

### Community Building

The act of strengthening bonds between community members through shared exercises or events which aim to increase inclusion and social connections within the community.

### Community-driven

A way of describing how change can be envisioned, created, and implemented by an
interconnected group of individuals. See Bottom-Up.

### Consent

Permission given for something to happen, which can be removed at any time.

### Contribution

The addition of an idea, method, or another piece of tangible/intangible work to something (e.g., a project, idea or document).

### Contributor

Any individual who has contributed something back to the overall project. This
is defined as any planning, organizing, writing, editing, brainstorming,
suggesting, or contributing time to the project in any form.

### Conventional

The state of being generally accepted or established as the normal approach

### Copyright

The aspect of intellectual property that grants creators the right to permit (or
not permit) the reproduction of their creations. It is distinct from trademark
rights or moral rights.

### Creative Commons (CC)

A suite of standardized licenses that allow copyright holders to grant some
rights to users by default. CC licenses are widely used, simple to use, machine
readable, and have been created by legal experts. There are a variety of CC
licenses, each of which use one or more clauses. Some licenses are compatible
with Open Access in the Budapest sense (CC0 or those carrying the BY, SA, and ND
clauses), and some are not (carrying the NC clause).

### Cross-pollination

The spread of ideas, actions or methods from one individual or domain to another.

### Curriculum

A collection of educational materials, lesson plans, or any other academic or
training content taught as part of an educational course or program with a
defined structure.

## D

### Data

All digitally available objects (simple or complex) that emerge or are the
result of the research process.

### DataLad

An open source data management system enabling reproducibility and collaboration through various tools including dataset sharing and version control.

### Data Mining

An analytic process designed to explore data in search of consistent patterns or
systematic relationships between variables, transforming data into information
for future use.

### Data Science

An interdisciplinary field focused on understanding how to glean insight from
structured and unstructured data. Sits at the intersection of computer science,
statistics, and domain-specific knowledge or expertise.

### Dataset

A collection of data in one central file, and, in most instances, refers to a 2-dimensional flat file (i.e., rows and columns)

### Data Structuring Standards

The conventional and widely accepted method for organizing data or datasets.

### Decentralized

The act of redistributing organizational efforts from a specific group or location to all interested individuals in a community.

### Digital Object Identifier (DOI)

A unique alphanumeric string assigned by a registration agency (the
International DOI Foundation) to identify content such as journal articles, data
sets or open source software releases and provide a persistent link to its
location on the Internet (American Psychological Association, 2018).

### Diversity

The practice or quality of including individuals from a range of different social and ethnic backgrounds and of different gender identities, sexual orientations, professional backgrounds, etc.

### Documentation

Detailed information about the background and methodological approaches about
data or code (e.g., description of the project, variables, and measuring
instruments).

## E

### Early Career Researcher (ECR)

Non-tenured researchers including undergraduates, research assistants, graduate
students, postdocs, and junior faculty.

### Educational Materials

Any collection of information (e.g., documents) that are used to teach or inform individuals.

### Electroencephalography (EEG)

A method of recording electrical activity in the brain through the use of electrodes on the scalp (the skin covering the top of the head).

### Ethics / Research ethics

The moral principles that govern how researchers should carry out their work.
These principles are used to shape research regulations agreed by groups such as
university governing bodies, communities or governments. All researchers should
follow these regulations that apply to their work.

### Expertise

Advanced skill or knowledge in a certain area.

## F

### FAIR Data

Findable, accessible, interoperable, and re-usable (FAIR) data, which
facilitates knowledge discovery by assisting humans and machines in their
discovery of, access to, integration and analysis of, task-appropriate
scientific data and their associated algorithms and workflows. This definition
is according to FORCE11 principles published in Nature Scientific Data.

### Free

Anything that is unconstrained (e.g., by money, time, or task).

### Fully Open

### Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)

A neuroscience method that indirectly measures brain activity by detecting
changes in blood flow associated with brain activity through the
blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal.

### Funding

Financial support granted to an entity for the purpose of development.

## G

### GDPR

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) seeks to create a harmonized data
protection law framework across the EU. It aims to restitute the control of
personal data to citizens, whilst imposing strict rules on those hosting and
'processing' these data, anywhere in the world. The Regulation also introduces
rules relating to the free movement of personal data within and outside the EU.

### Geographically Unbounded

To be free of geographic constraints; to engage an audience that is not restricted to a certain location.

### Github

An online code hosting and version control service. It has a great many features
to aid collaboration between users, and hosts a large number of open source
projects.

### Gitlab

A web-based DevOps lifecycle tool that provides a Git-repository manager
providing wiki, issue-tracking and continuous integration and deployment
pipeline features, using an open-source license, developed by GitLab Inc.

## H

### Hackathon

The term hackathon is a portmanteau of “hacking” and “marathon”. Traditionally,
it is an event where both individuals people and teams gather to collaboratively
work on projects over the course of multiple days. These events often feature
competitions between teams; however, Brainhacks do not have this feature and
instead emphasize collaboration.

### Hacking

In this context, hacking does not refer to trying to break through the security
of a computer system. Instead, it is understood as tinkering with a system to
understand how it works, selecting a problem to learn how to solve it, or
working with a process to gain knowledge on how to improve it.

### Hands-on

Any event or project that includes a practical activity which allows individuals to “learn by doing”.

### Hypothesis

A proposed explanation for observed phenomenon that can be tested through
various forms of investigation.

## I

### INCF

An acronym for the International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility; an international non-profit organization that aims to create and distribute best practices in neuroscience.

### Inclusivity

The practice of providing equal access to all regardless of minority group
status and actively seeking the engagement and contribution from these groups.

### Informal

To be unofficial or relaxed in nature.

### Innovative

New ways of thinking or doing that are a departure in some way from how they
were done previously.

### Institute

An organization with a particular purpose in one or multiple professional domains.

### Intellectual Property

A legal term that refers to creations of the mind. Examples of intellectual
property include music, literature, paintings, sculpturing, video and other
artistic works; discoveries and inventions; and phrases, symbols, and designs.

## J

### Journal

A series of published research articles. Historically divided into volumes and
issues.

## K

## L

### Lab

A group of individuals devoted to a specific research topic, typically situated within a specific research institution under a principal investigator

### Leadership

Adjective: Leading or directing a group towards a goal.
Noun: The collective group of people formally or informally in charge

### License

This is a legal document that sets out the permissions for creative and academic
work. It explains copyright, ensures proper attribution and sets out how others
can copy, distribute and make use of the works.

### Local Event

An organized activity that occurs (e.g., conference, workshop) in a given region or location.

## M

### Maintainers

Contributors who are responsible for driving the vision and managing the
organizational aspects of the project. They may also be authors and/or owners of
the project.

### Management

Coordination and maintenance of something (e.g., a team or system).

### Mattermost Community Forum

An open source platform that enables communication and collaboration within and across teams.

### Metadata

Metadata provides a basic description of the data, often including authorship,
dates, title, abstract, keywords, and license information. They serve first and
foremost the findability of data (e.g. creator, time period, geographic
location).

### Methodology

The systematic approach used for a particular activity such as analysis or reporting.

### Model

A representation of something that aims to explain or relate its elements in a unified and interpretable way.

### Multidisciplinary

To combine or involve multiple fields.

## N

### Neurohackademy

Neurohackademy is a summer school in neuroimaging and data science, held at the
University of Washington eScience Institute (https://neurohackademy.org/).

### Neuroimaging Pipeline Framework

The structure of a workflow for processing or analyzing neuroimaging data.

### Neuroscientist

A person who studies the function of the nervous system.

### Networking

The act of connecting socially and/or professionally with others.

## O

### OHBM

The Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) is an international society
dedicated to using neuroimaging to discover the organization of the human brain.
The Society's main purpose is that of advancing the understanding of the
anatomical and functional organization of the human brain, and promoting its
medical and societal applications (https://www.humanbrainmapping.org/).

### OHBM Aperture

An open-access publishing platform publishing a broad range of research objects,
such as research reports, reviews, tutorials, educational materials,
computational notebooks, software, and data papers.

### Open Access

Open Access refers to online, free of cost access to peer-reviewed scientific
content with free reusability regarding copyright restrictions.

### Open Access Publishing (gratis)

The practice of making research publications available to anyone to read without
charge.

### Open Access Publishing (libre)

Libre open access is gratis, meaning the research is available free of charge,
but it goes further by granting users the right to copy, reuse, and remix the
publication

### Open Brain Consent

An international initiative that provides data sharing resources and tools to neuroimaging researchers.

### Open Data

Open Data is online, free of cost, accessible data that can be used, reused and
distributed provided that the data source is attributed.

### Open Evaluation

The development of a fair evaluation system or protocol for research proposals,
based on transparency of the process and those involved.

### Open Lab Notebooks

A concept of writing about research on a regular basis, such that research notes
and data are accumulated and published online as soon as they are obtained.

### Open License

A license is a document that specifies what can and cannot be done with a work.
It grants permissions and states restrictions. Broadly speaking, an open license
is one that grants permission to access, re-use and redistribute a work with few
or no restrictions.

### Open Materials

Sharing of research materials, for example, biological and geological samples,
is another Open Science practice.

### Open Neuro

A free neuroinformatics platform for sharing neuroimaging data.

### Open Peer Review

An umbrella term for a number of overlapping ways that peer review models can be
adapted in line with the aims of Open Science, including making reviewer and
author identities open, publishing review reports and enabling greater
participation in the peer review process.

### Open Science

Movement which aims to improve the strength of scientific inferences and the
effectiveness of scientific communication, by reducing **questionable research
practices**, and making greater use of practices such as **replication and
pre-prints**

### Open Science Framework

An open source software that enables FAIR and multidisciplinary collaboration in research. 

### Open Source

Availability of source code for a piece of software, along with an open source
license permitting reuse, adaptation, and further distribution.

### Open Source Project

A project in which a significant amount of collaboration between the core or
leadership team and the wider community takes place in the form of online
interactions. Community interactions should maintain transparency and openness
of the project to facilitate the growth of your community.

### Organic

Something that occurs naturally or without effort.

### Outcome

The end result or final product of something.

## P

### Participant

An individual who takes part in something.

### Peer Review

A process by which a research article is vetted by experts from the community
before publication.

### Peer Working

Collaborative and equal effort between individuals in the same field and stage of their career.

### P-Hacking

Collecting or selecting data or statistical analyses until non-significant
results become significant (a **questionable research practice**).

### Preprint

A manuscript draft that has not yet been subject to formal peer review,
distributed to receive early feedback on research from peers. a complete study
report shared with a public audience without peer review. Often, preprints are
also submitted for peer review and publication in a traditional scholarly
journal.

### Preregistration

Researchers have the option or are required to submit important information
about their study (for example: research rationale, hypotheses, design and
analytic strategy) to a public registry before beginning the study.
Preregistration can help counter reporting bias. Project

### Project Leader

Someone who instigates and/or directs a group of individuals in a given project.

### Project Pitching

The act of introducing a project in a concise and understandable manner.

### Publication

The release of a book, journal, or other document for public viewing or sale.

### Publishing Venue

The place where a given document or piece of information will be published, such as a journal.

## R

### README File

File where you document your research data. The documentation should be
sufficient to enable other researchers to understand, replicate or reproduce the
data or reuse them in any other way.

### Redistribution

Dissemination of something (e.g., information, duties) in a new way than what was done originally with the intention of increasing equality or fairness amongst individuals.

### Registered Report

A published report describing the hypotheses and planned method of a study,
before the data is collected. Also known as a ‘pre-registration’ or ‘pre-reg’.

### Reliability

Typically defined as the ratio of within-subject variability to between-subject
variability (ie. Intraclass correlation coefficient).

### Reporting Bias

Reporting bias occurs when certain aspects of a study are systematically not
reported transparently, creating wastage and redundancy through selective
reporting or non-publishing.

### Repository

The infrastructure and corresponding platform that allows for the persistent,
efficient and sustainable storage, maintenance and access of digital objects (e.g., resources including documents, data or code). This keyword is often
shortened to ‘repo’.

### Reproducible Research

Reproducibility is a spectrum and instructors should choose the definition most
used by their audience. Generally speaking, reproducible research makes it
possible to obtain similar results of a study or experiment and independent
results obtained with the same methods but under different conditions (i.e.,
pertains to results). Some break the definition into levels of reproducibility,
including computationally reproducible (also called "reproducible"): where code
and data can be analyzed in a similar manner as in the original research to
achieve the same results, and empirically reproducible (also called
“replicable”): where an independent researcher can repeat a study using the same
methods but creating new data.

### Reproducibility

The degree to which the same methods, results, and inferences of a study can be
produced again. Methods reproducibility is the degree to which the methods
described in a study report can be performed again. This may be limited by a
vague description in the study report or lack of openness in the data. Results
reproducibility is the degree to which the same results are produced, in a new
study with the same method Inferential reproducibility is the degree to which
the same inferences are drawn, either in a new study with the same method and
results or in a re-analysis of the original study. Generally speaking, when
discussing reproducibility it is important to specify the changing conditions
across which measurement/findings are being reproduced. Computational
reproducibility, cross-sample reproducibility, and cross-site reproducibility
and other forms all specify the changing conditions under which reproducibility
is being measured.

### Research Funder

An institute, corporation or government body that provides financial assistance
for research.

### Research Impact

Involve academic, economic and societal aspects, or some combination of all
three. Impact is the demonstrable contribution that research makes in shifting
understanding and advancing scientific, method, theory and application across
and within disciplines, and the broader role that this plays outside of the
research system.

### Reuse

To make use of something more than one time or in a different way than was originally done.

## S

### Sample Size

The number of individuals observed in a given analysis.

### Satellite Events

Meetings that occur in a different location from the main or central meeting but are aligned with the central meeting in terms of goals and organization.

### Scholarly Communication

The creation, transformation, dissemination, and preservation of knowledge
related to teaching, research, and scholarly endeavors; the process of
academics, scholars and researchers sharing and publishing their research
findings so that they are available to the wider academic community. The
creation, transformation, dissemination, and preservation of knowledge related
to teaching, research, and scholarly endeavors; the process of academics,
scholars and researchers sharing and publishing their research findings so that
they are available to the wider academic community.

### Scientific Approach

A standard and reliable procedure used in scientific fields for investigating a given research question.

### Scientific Practice

A standard, efficient and reliable approach used in the scientific community.

### Scientific Validation

The act of confirming something (e.g., a method or experiment) to ensure its usefulness and reliability.

### Self-organizing

The act of bringing something together by oneself without a governing entity overseeing the process.

### Senior Researcher

An individual who has achieved a level in their career allowing them to oversee major projects and supervise other researchers. 

### Sharing

The joint use of a resource or space. A fundamental aspect of collaborative
research. As most research is digitally-authored & digitally-published, the
resulting digital content is non-rivalrous and can be shared without any loss to
the original creator.

### Study Protocol

The particular procedure to conduct a given study.

### Subscription

A form of business model whereby a fee is paid in order to gain access to a
product or service—in this case, the outputs of scholarly research.

## T

### Tool

Anything that can facilitate the development, improvement or expansion of something else (e.g., data).

### Traditional

Something (e.g., a method or theory) that is established, long-standing, or widely accepted.

### Trainee

An individual who is in the process of being trained.

### Trainer

The moderator and instructor of a training, whose role is to ensure the training
objectives are met, run the practice, and ensure no one is left out.

### Training

Training is any organized activity that teaches, informs, or transfers skills or
knowledge on specific useful competencies through active, engaged learning.

### Training Format

A conventionally named, standardized delivery method that is applied by a
trainer and includes any number of the pedagogical tools necessary (i.e.,
motivation/demotivation, hands-on approaches, etc).

### TrainTrack

A series of educational talks or workshops that runs in parallel to the project
tracks through which attendees collaboratively work on projects. The content of
the TrainTrack can range from tutorials that teach hands-on skills needed for
the projects in a Brainhack (e.g., like code version-control using Git) to
software demos with much narrower applications.

### Transparency

The act of being or doing something (e.g., disseminating information) in an accessible, clear and comprehensive manner.

### Toolbox

A set of tools (e.g., software functions) centralized in one package.

## U

### Unconference

An unconference is a participant-driven meeting. The term "unconference" has
been applied, or self-applied, to a wide range of gatherings that try to avoid
hierarchical aspects of a conventional conference, such as sponsored
presentations and top-down organization {cite}`wiki:unconference`. Commonly,
participants present their research, project work, or any other topics of
current interest in an informal setting to other participants. The content of an
unconference is usually decided very shortly before or during the Brainhack
event itself, often inspired by ongoing within-team discussions that could be of
interest to the larger group.

### Unconventional

Not conforming to an established belief or method.

## V

### Version Control

Version control is the management of changes to documents, computer programs,
large web sites, and other collections of information in a logical and
persistent manner, allowing for both track changes and the ability to revert a
piece of information to a previous revision.

### Version Control System

The mechanism or platform enabling version control (e.g., Git).

## W

### Workforce

The labor pool of a given institution, company, state, or group. It can be
formal or informal, but either way, its main function is to unite.

### Workflow

The general step-by-step plan for a given project or experiment.

### Workshop

A joint project in which participants engage in a particular activity. 

## Y

## Z

## References

<!--
[Open Science Training Handbook](https://open-science-training-handbook.gitbook.io/book/glossary)

[OSF Open Science Glossary](https://osf.io/xbcaz/)

[Turing-Way Book Glossary](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/glossary.html#)
-->

```{bibliography} ./references.bib
:all:
:style: unsrt
```
